Feb 25, 2000
Blunt Justice by Andy
https://archive.is/A1H9c (members.aol.com)
https://archive.is/vR2Zd (angelfire.com)

GMP Cinema -what cant be said that hasn't been said before, o my brothers and sisters?
Well, first off, *nothing* has been said previous to this, so you're no doubt scratching your collective heards wondering whats the deal with this phrase that phoenetically spells like "gimp".
Am I right or am I right?
Then its time for y'all's collective self to be head-checked with the info.
So anyway, I first encountered GMP Cinema and Mike Stoklasa several months ago when i was approached about distributing some flyers for him and his independant film company through my zine (Fighting Godzilla With A Squirtgun, respectively), whereupon he was gracious to send me some promo copies of his movies.
They were homemade, DIY films of the genre that tickles everyone's rib -sci fi/horror.
Indeed.
His newest feature, entitled "Blunt Justice" quickly found its way from my mailbox to my VCR, where it stayed for the next few days.
Combining the live-action element of 'Blunt's predecessor, "Jester", with the action-figures-as-cast schlock from the infamous "Oranges" series, "Blunt Justice" (contrary to popular belief) has little to do with the herb-toking, fatty smoking nuance that the title just may convey to some of you readers.
No, in fact, it has to do with an alien midget named Mooshoo, who is wrongly imprisoned on an intergalactic space-prison, but escapes when the prison is destroyed.
He crash lands on Earth and befriends Willy, the A-typical loser type not unlike Elliot (not the band) from 'E.T'.
Willy, the ever-optimist weenie, assures his new alien buddy that everything is going to be okay, but Mooshoo knows otherwise; the deadly Bounty Hunter X is sent hot on his trail, ready to disintegrate him at the first chance.
Much more production went into "Blunt Justice" than GMP's previous features, and that's appearent from the first shot, utilizing more CG editors and sound effects, which accentuates, not dampers, the overall B-movie ambience that we (at least I) have come to love.
No kidding folks, I'm not baiting you with promises of ILM-quality special effects, but its a helluva lot better than any movie you made with your cousin's camcorder.
Talking action figures, styrofoam spaceships, lots of duct tape and even a Todd Dingle Attorney-At-Law commercial make the viewing of this all the worthwhile.
And not even in that cheesy-I-Love-Plan-9-Because-They-Tell-Me-To way that so many independant/cult horror movies suck in viewers, this is actually GOOD!! We witness Mooshoo and Willy's budding best-friendship, the angst-ridden introspective monologue of a hopeless killer-for-hire, and even the dramatic death of Mooshoo's wife.
Drama!
Melodrama!
Schlock!
Love!
Valour!
Compassion!
Et Cetera!!
I strongly urge anyone who truly appreciates not only indie/cult movies, but GOOD indie/cult/sci-fi/horror to look into what Mike and his crew offer.

-- Andy (Fighting Godzilla with a Squirt Gun Zine)
fightinggodzilla@juno.com
