Feb 25, 2000
Blunt Justice review by Erik Woods
https://archive.is/A1H9c (members.aol.com)

To sum up BLUNT JUSTICE in just a couple of words...well, all I have to say is that this film is what nightmares are made of.
This Sci-Fi comic adventure takes place in a galaxy of Bounty Hunters, Space Midgets, and Talking Dolls.
It tells the story of Mooshoo; a falsely accused Space Midget forced to serve a life sentence abroad a space prison.
After a botched escape attempt Mooshoo crash lands on Earth and discovers he is being hunter by a deadly type 6 bounty hunter known only as X-638.
First off, when I saw that dolls, yes dolls, were the main characters of this film, I almost turned off the movie and chucked it out the window.
I was thinking to myself, how the hell are we suppose to take this seriously?
Well, I just answered my own question...you don’t!!!!
BLUNT JUSTICE is just one of those movie where you check your brain at the door, grab a couple of beers and laugh your ass off.
This is possibly one of the most entertaining amateur films I have seen.
Even with its cheesy blue screen effects and crazy looking costumes this movie just grabs you and takes you for a wild intergalactic ride.
So, what were the specific things I liked?
First is the script.
It’s an absolute roar.
I don’t know how these guys at GMP came up with this crazy idea but it must have been an absolute blast to write.
Unfortunately, I wasn’t taking notes while watching the film and GMP web site doesn’t have any credits as to who the writers where, but whom ever you are great work.
Next, is the ‘Monkey Man’ commercial.
I absolutely lost it when this short but absolutely hilarious commercial pops its head into the film.
I don’t want to give to much away about the commercial because I think everyone should experience this one with a fresh and open mind but seeing a Gorilla driving a car is only the beginning of a very humorous break in the action.
Other favorite scenes include a well-written speech given by Mooshoo when he is explaining to the main characters grandmother his life history.
Again, I was on the floor dying of laugher.
Also, the really fun part of this film is trying to find the many, and I mean many Star Wars references and lines ripped directly from some of the original screenplays.
I love parody films and this one uses this form of film making to a tee.
Plus, the special effects in this fim where very well placed.
I especially loved the Bounty Hunters invisible shield effect as bullets ricochet of him.
Very well done.
Now, as for the best part of the film...well, all I can say is that if you love a film with a 15 minutes beating scene...then this film is for you.
I don’t know how the filmmakers got away with destroying everything in their path but this finale scene is worth spending $3 to purchase BLUNT JUSTICE.
Now on to the only two parts I didn’t like about this film.
First, there are a couple of scene where we have the film moving along at a very nice pace when suddenly there is an extended dialogue sequence.
I have nothing against dialogue but I felt that these scene where way to long and should have been cut down during the script writing process just to keep the pace of the film moving along.
The other complaint is the cinematography.
In some parts the hand held work is very effective but again when you have the chance to set up a tripod in order to get a nice clear and easy to watch picture...please use it.
Nothing is more distracting then and shaking camera during a dialogue sequence.
But, that’s just me.
So, in conclusion, BLUNT JUSTICE is Farrelly Brothers humor meets Star Wars, meets The Fugitive, meets Spaceballs all rolled into one.
Trust me, you want be disappointed with this hilarious effort by GMP Pictures.

Erik Woods

TEWS Entertainment
