Apr 15, 2001
Review: The Trouble with Her Uterus
https://archive.is/L6Cfk (REwind Video Magazine)

I recently contacted Jay Bauman of Blanc Screen Cinema and asked if he wanted to do a tape trade.
After exchanging addresses, I received “The Trouble with Her Uterus.”
I read about this movie and saw screen shots on the Internet, so I had many pre-conceived notions about TTWHU.
I also previously saw “GMP Meets Blanc Screen Cinema” when Mike Stoklasa sent me “Oranges: The Movie,” so I had already developed a feel for this movie.
It seemed messed up, funny, insulting and I got the impression that it had absolutely no taste whatsoever.
Therefore, I knew I would love this movie, and I did.
It lived up to all of my expectations, but unfortunatley, it didn’t exceed them.
What I mean is that I was expecting to see one of the most disgusting amateur movies ever to hit the screen, and I think I did, but for some reason I was craving more when the movie ended.
“The Trouble with Her Uterus” is a fantastic tale of a couple named Doyle and Lilly.
Lilly reveals to Doyle that she is pregnant, which is amazing since the only sign of affection between the two are when they rub each other’s foreheads.
Meanwhile, Lilly’s brother, who lives with them, promises his girlfriend’s child that he will fulfill his only wish of fucking a baby.
Lo and behold, his sister is pregnant, so he devises a plan to get the baby after it is born so that little Rich Evans can have his fun.
That is the basic plotline, and I think it is one of the movie’s top attributes.
The best points of this movie are as follows: I felt that the strongest aspect were the characters.
Every character had his or her own distinct personality, which seperates the characters.
Even characters played by the same actor had their own differences that set them apart.
In particular, Jesse Sorgatz was the standout talent of this group.
He played three different characters, including Doyle, the main character.
Sorgatz developed a strange voice, posture and unique facial expression that made his character come alive.
I really enjoyed his performance and feel that his was the best of show.
Other standout performances come from GMP’s Rich Evans as the kid who wants to fuck a baby.
It took a lot of guts for him to put on a helicoptor beanie and act like a 10-year-old in a different company’s movie.
Mike Stoklasa was also good in a bit part as a gang-banger named Big K (as in K-Mart).
All other performances were adequate, including Lisa Renley’s part as Doyle’s wife, who’s unborn child is chosen to be the baby that is humped by the 10-year-old.
However, it must have been difficult to deliver a good performance when surrounded by such talented freaks that basically steal the show.
Alongside Sorgatz, her acting seems wooden, her lines delivered with memorized inflection.
But not to be too harsh, as an amateur actress, I applaud her for doing everything she did to make this movie work.
From puking on Sorgatz’s face, having her water break in a public park, and allowing a fetus to be yanked from between her legs, her willingness to be subjected to such humiliating abuse is admirable.
There aren’t many actresses in amateur land who would approach this kind of material and not only approve of doing it, but do it with enthusiasm.
Technically speaking, this movie is pretty solid.
The editing is clean most of the time, except for the lack of good shot sequencing.
Most dialogue scenes began with a wide of two characters talking, then would cut to a medium shot of the two characters talking.
Although these shot choices were risky with the possibility of jump cuts, there weren’t many of them.
Scenes may have flowed better with more close-up shots of characters delivering dialogue, focusing on the character speaking.
It creates more emphasis so the viewer isn’t drawn away to what the other character is doing, and in this movie, it was probably something worth watching.
To put it simply, use of more close-ups would mix up the shots better.
Remember, wide, medium, close.
In the behind the scenes video, I noticed that the crew was using a microphone other than the on-board mic.
Bravo.
The sound was very good, although outdoors, the wind levels are pretty high.
It’s a common amateur problem that usually can’t be helped.
Boy do I know that.
But enough of what could have been better.
How about more of what was good.
I really did enjoy this flick.
It was right up my alley with it’s screwed up plot, demented characters, witty dialogue, and random Jesus scenes.
I love how Jesus just shows up to help Doyle out.
These scenes are some of the best in the movie and his Rasta accent is great.
(Check out Jesus’ Type O Negative tribute in the deleted scenes.)
Hilarious!
Props to Jay Bauman for writing and directing this movie.
He did an awesome job of creating a mood and sticking to it.
He knew what he wanted this movie to be so he stuck to his guns and got it made.
This is true amateur movie making without flashy special effects or quasi-elaborate gun fights, which is really refreshing.
I just loved so many elements of this movie, such as trailer trash with leprosy, gratuitous road kill shots (yes!), love vomit, lactating forehead nipples, and a cheesy 50’s soundtrack mixed with punk and baby music that brings it all together.
The list goes on and is too huge to put here.
It would simply give too much away, but let me say this in closing.
If you’re into demented storylines made by people with the talent to pull it off in gruesome detail, then this is the movie to see.

-- Jared Hargrave
