Apr 20, 2001
“Transients:” Something With Which I’d Love to See You Help Me
https://archive.is/loPCm (rewindvideo.com)

I’ve been ranting on this column for 37 straight weeks now, and this is the first time I’ve ever bounded into such self-serving territory.
Fortunately, this could help us all out if it comes out right, so why don’t you just humor me and read on?
A long time ago, I wrote an article about Camp REwind calling for someone to pick an idea, write it and then offer to lead the rest of us drones into shooting it come the week-long keg-and-camera party in South Dakota.
Some people got their panties all bunched because they thought I was being too nit-picky calling for organization, order and a game-plan.
Sorry, but your panties should’ve stayed on straight.
While I did criticize the disorganization of the deal, I did recognize it’d be quite a bit of time before we could realistically expect some sense of order to the joint.
To my very happy surprise, this Camp REwind deal seems like it may be one of the coolest outings us young movie makers will ever see.
Yet one thing that did kind of disappoint me was the quality of the ideas presented for the shoot-out.
Granted, you don’t necessarily HAVE to have a script ready for our July extravaganza… Hell, to be truthful, all you really need is a camera, some beer and Wally Fong strapped to that folding chair.
(Which is padded now?What’s that all about?)  But I was hoping was that my article might inspire someone to take the rest of us by the creative cujones and steer us into the direction of their vision.
Garret Gilchrist was brave enough to go hog wild in the forum with “The Video House,” but the idea really was too difficult to produce easily, thus it fell by the wayside.
Okay… for the rest of us it seemed difficult.
For Garret, the proposed four hour epic no doubt was a walk in the park.
Then Mike Branum over in Hooptyland dropped the “self-referential” bomb on us all with his story about the young filmmaker who, due to his disorganization, ends up at a party filled with poets instead of fellow movie-makers.
I backed this one because it seemed easy enough to do, and  because it was a good, cute story… something lightweight which would allow us to spend the rest of our time getting drunk and hitting Stoklasa with Rich Evans’s Nerf bat.
But no one else bit and soon that too fell by the wayside.
For a while, there were some novel notions tossed out, but nothing that ever really caught fire.
In essence, by the time the Western idea took off with Branum and Ashby at the wheel, I think many people were kind of “like whatever” about the shoot-out.
Too bad, because I think it’s a kick ass opportunity for us as a community to:
#1. Have fun.
#2. Tell the world who we are by creating a unifying work.
#3. Give us something to do once we’ve tired of taking swings at the bound and gagged Fong.
Fair enough? 
So anyway, fast-forwarding to today, April 20, 2001, I’m unveiling a script that not a lot of people may care about, but which I think has terrific potential to represent how well we work within our much maligned limitations (no time, no money, no people, etc.)
It’s called “Transients” and it’s as heady as a non-intellectual goof like me can get.
I mentioned it in the Camp REwind Forum, but not many people seemed to comment, so I’m opening up things here where more people may see it and treat it with indifference.
And like Garrett said when he tossed the “Video House” idea at us, if you don’t like it, feel free to come up with something better.
Because what we need here is some serious fire under our asses.
Yeah, I want to have fun in South Dakota too, that’s why I chose a story that’s fairly easy-to-shoot such as this.
But I also want to come back from South Dakota with something more than a hangover, a pocketful of Timberwolf-girl signed photos, and a clump of Wally’s hair.
Ideally, I’d also return to Boston with this movie, shot and ready to be edited, and with the whole lot of you glad that you helped out. 
Read on and I hope to read something in the forum… even if it’s how much of a pretentious, egotistical windbag I am.

-- Jason Santo
