Apr 27, 2001
My Long Walk Home
https://archive.is/C76xY (REwind Video Magazine)

GMP Pictures is primarily known for making schlock/comedy/sci-fi madness.
That's their reputation.
Blanc Screen Cinema seems to be primarily known as "the company that made that movie about baby f***king." And Allegory Films..well, nobody's seen anything by them.
But after working with Mike Stoklasa for the past few months, The Long Walk Home is going to change everything.
I can say that without even worrying about sounding arrogant or self-righteous.
It's a fact.
This film is going to be important for the community.
I'm speaking from a completely outsider's point of view, since this is more or less Mike's baby.
My first exposure to Mike actually directing was back in November, when we shot a few simple scenes for LWH with me, Jessie Cuellar and Jesse Sorgatz.
On the ride over to the location, an abandoned factory in downtown Chicago, Mike was telling me his ideas for this feature and how he wanted it to be different from his usual stuff.
The thing that stuck out in my mind was how serious he was.
In my opinion, it's very difficult to take an amateur movie seriously.
They just seem so amateurish.
But Mike knew what he was talking about.
He actually said he wanted to "move people," which in my mind is a pretty tall order for an amateur filmmaker, much less one widely known for making a movie about talking fruit.
We got to the location and Mike began to direct Jessie and Jesse.
And I mean DIRECT.
He began giving each actor their character's backstory, their motives, their mood, what their parents were like, what they had for breakfast that day, etc.
Jessie Cuellar's character is a homeless chick and Mike actually had her so worked up with his speech about what kind of person she was that Jessie had tears in her eyes when he started filming, which worked perfectly for the scene.
It was incredible.
Mike even talked Jessie into doing a semi-nude scene that was going to be exercised from the script since I told him he probably wouldn't be able to convince her to do it.
But he had her eating out of his hand.
Mike is truly an actor's director.
He knew how important the nude scene was to the story and to the vulnerability of the character.
And believe me, the nude scene is going to make the movie worth watching.
It's tasteful and truly a sentimental, memorable moment.
I was shown a rough edit of the scene just a couple weeks ago and it brought an actual got me pretty emotional at how sweet it was.
A short time after filming the Jesse Sorgatz/Jessie Cuellar scenes, Mike got into a bit of a problem with Allegory Films.
More specifically, he and Rich got into a problem with Kim Phillips' car.
I won't go into detail since I belive Mike is going to explain all the bloody details later.
Let me just say that Mike handled the situation the way a true professional would.
Not like that crazy bastard from Fox Pack that was posting in the forum a few weeks ago.
I've gone down to Chicago two more times since then to lend a hand with The Long Walk Home and every time, I've just been amazed with how much of a professional Mike Stoklasa truly is.
And Rich Evans for that matter.
There's a scene where I'm supposed to threaten Jesse Sorgatz with a knife.
I was doing a terrible job at this for the first few takes.
I just can't be threatening (The Trouble With Her Uterus, anyone?).
Mike was getting irritated with me, which was understandable, and pulled a full-on William Friedkin on me by slapping me across the face to get the proper emotions out of me.
At the time, I was furious, but looking at the scene now, it worked perfectly.
For the first time in my life, I look like a bad rear end.
GMP's other films may be wacky and silly, but after The Long Walk Home is released, they will be a force to be reckoned with.
Mike is a very modest fellow in the forum and even in person, but I truly believe that his work on The Long Walk Home will speak for itself.
Okay, Mike, now where's my $10?

--Jay Bauman, Blanc Screen Cinema
