Jul 20, 2001
G.G. Allen Stole My Vomit
https://archive.is/rnP5g (rewindvideo.com)

I have finally seen more works of Garrett Gilchrist and the ABC news affiliate posse!
Movies like "The Animal Game" "Exxxcaliburger" and several shortz from his apparent studies at USC, and in somewhat defense of Garrett I must regard most of Slappy's comments as being too harsh.
Gilchrist still has a lot to learn (mainly the fine art of getting to the point) he does clearly show a great diversity and talent though.
Slappy seemed a bit too over critical on certain issues (note: we are all entitled to our own opinion) and I must disagree with the hooptyism that film makers should not judge each others works, criticism makes the world go round!
What fun would the word "suck" be if it wasn't so frequently used to describe films I've seen.
Anywho, back to the point.
After seeing Phantom Movie I guess I dismissed Garrett and his cohorts as Monty Pythonesque wannabe players.
You know, those loud mouthed High School Drama kids that wouldn't shut up and had too much energy.
People I frequently got in arguments and fights with ( I did a very brief stint as a drama crew person, but I was mainly there cause of a girl I was interested in) anywho, There seemed to be a certain style to his work.
Phantom Movie was a farce of farce and while many jokes did make me laugh the general ineptitude of camera work, and pacing out of comedy elements seemed to drag the movie down.
However, the recent viewing of more of Garrett's stuff opened some more doors.
What follows will be a review of said material.
The Animal Game.
This movie was a wonderful mess, a poetic piece of puke, a brilliantly conceived bowel movement.
I couldn't take my eyes off the screen or my hand off the fast forward button (though the temptation never was realized) It was long, seemingly pointless, but at the same time was an experiment in humanity and some sort of something brilliant.
The boring parts were painful, but as Garrett says in the film "It's like getting hit in the head with a baseball, you feel pain, but that pain is a reminder that you're alive" This is most true, Animal Game was long, but at the same time that length was like tough love for film makers.
Animal Game is basically a 2 and a half hour film about a group of kids making a movie.........okay it's just like the Blair Witch Project.
It's shot all in black and white and pretty much has the same feel cause the Idea is that the film is all from the perspective of a video camera that passes from person to person.
Gilchrist plays "Larry" the odd egocentric mastermind behind the film who apparently is dying at the end of the day and wants to preserve himself and his odd ramblings on the hi-8 format for all the world to remember him by.
Larry struggles with the dual nature of man and his animal instincts all the while a cast of 18 year old boys laugh about hustler magazine and make jerk off jokes (perhaps this was subtle social commentary?).
What was acting?
what was these guys just goofing around?
Like the number of licks it takes to get to the center of a tootsie roll pop, the world may never know.
Or care for that matter as I don't see that many people getting to the end of this film.
Most people don't have the patience to sit through a 30 second television spot, let alone 140 minutes of a shaking video camera and the temptation to fast forward or turn the tape off was too great especially for the brave explorers that made it as far as the forest sequence at the end.
The shame about this film is that conceptually it's a great little idea and in many numbers of occasions Garrett says some very funny things and some semi-profound statements can even be pulled from the dreck of his rambling.
In the diner the camera is on Gilchrist as he's talking about how mankind is really animals.
Garrett then begins to eat off his plate with his face like a dog.
Ashe says "are you trying to prove a point", Gilchrist responds with a stone face "No, I'm just trying to eat" This had the old laughmeter off the charts, and there are many moments of this throughout the film, however they are spaced too far apart and it does drag on, even if it's conceptually brilliant.
It's the typical case of a director not wanting to part with any of his footage.
Garrett must and will learn this someday: that the audience needs to be a small step behind the film, when the plot twists or what not they are close behind, ever following along in anticipation of what is next.
When the audience gets ahead and the film is catching up, it is what is known in the industry as a "bad thing".
I would be interested to see a cut of animal game that's a good hour or so shorter cause there was a lot of potential there.
all in all, watching the animal game was like watching a train wreck with an underlying theme of death and how you will be remembered after death.
It's a topic we all can't help think about, there is something kind of creepy about the animal game, something that transcends it's format and it's actors, it's hard to put a finger on.
It's a very deceptive little piece of video hell.
I popped the second tape in without bothering to read the list on it and to my surprise I was watching excaliburger!
Now this was much better than phantom movie, the jokes were faster and the editing was tighter.
And when Merlin the wizard says fuck its oh so amusing to me!
I felt a little safer with this film cause I pretty much understood what he was going for.
Liked the costumes, and some of the scenery and the jokes and the writing were good.
It's a great effort thus far, and then it stopped and I discovered it was just a preview or a rough cut of the first quarter.
Whatever, that's cool I'll look forward to the rest when it's done.
Though I must agree with slapps that some camera work was less than stellar and that the 180 degree rule was flagrantly broken, but it didn't bother me that much.
It kind of made the film a little more silly which for a silly comedy is a "good thing".
Next up on the list was some shorts.
Shorts you may be asking, is that possible!
Yes, it is!
The first one (music of the mind ballet) I was impressed with on a technical level, but not so a story.
It was basically about a girl in college or high school who's a book worm and her wild alter ego clone emerges after a night of bizarre sleep.
She goes around and does things that her nerdy counterpart wouldn't have etc....Again this was slow moving.
example: It took a good 10 minutes just to set up that Girl was Nerd.
Lengthy shots of her walking up a hallway, staying up all night studying, looking worried and depressed.
A simple concept like this can be established in one shot, but in stead it's draggggggggggged out (note the extra g's to simulate the length) However, this film did have some interesting little camera effects and Garrett did some really fucking smooth split screen work!
First time I watched this I was totally convinced he had found twins and made this movie because of that.
I was really honestly surprised to see that it was the same girl.
Some well thought out camera work there!
Next up is so far the best work of Garrett's I've seen thus far.
It's a tale about a dying comic book artist who's evaluating his life and wondering how he will be remembered.
He is talked through his life by an angel character and he comes to terms with things like his ex-wives, his son's suicide, and other events in his life.
He is the creator of a silly little comic strip that has little artistic value so he wonders if it will live on after he is dead.
I was kind of surprised to see this dramatic effort from Garrett, it really worked.
It was very well done.
Not much more can be said about that.
Had some technical issues, but they are easily overlooked.
After all this is an amateur film and in amateur film things aren't technically perfect, hence the fact that we are amateurs.
If the technical issues are sooo glaring and they disrupt the viewing of the film, then it should be mentioned, but to complain about the choice of camera angles and how the white screen stuff was filmed is nitpicking.
Garrett has opened his heart and his mind in this film and that courage should be celebrated.
With this film there is an interesting and original message, which is refreshing.
It's not a standard scream horror movie that has a chick in her bra as it's only asset of quality, it's not about a guy with a gun pointing a gun at another guy with a gun, who's pointing a gun at another guy with a gun, it's about humanity and the intricacies of the emotional thought process, and that was nice to see - though it wasn't too pretentious or self indulgent as dramatic student works often are.
Onto the next film.
this is a stop motion film about a boy becoming the apprentice of death.
Visually this film is very nice.
The little characters faces on top of bodies of clay is an interesting animation style.
Its like traditional and stop motion combined.
The real nice thing about this film are the voice overs.
Garrett sounds like the emperor from star wars (this is probably very intentional as he says "boy" a lot and "apprentice") but the cast of other characters with the exception of the barkeep (who you can't understand) do a great job.
The voice for the princess sounds straight out of a professional children's storybook type movie.
I was very impressed, however this short was unfinished so I cannot comment further.
After that came shorts from Dr.
Fred's amazing exploding cow show.
I haven't watched all of this yet as I was tired and the opening there was too much screaming for my ears to handle at that time.
But I love all the little animations and graphic work Gilchrist puts into his films, they are wonderful and make things look really great.
Over all Gilchrist's films tend to take a while to get to the point, but they show diversity and a whole heck of a lot of creativity, so check um out or something.

-- Mike, GMP Pictures
