Jan 7, 2002
I'M THE DIRECTOR! JUST SAY MY WORDS!
https://archive.is/mDvmS (rewindvideo.com)

"I am a movie director. I have a vision."

Simplistic.
Pretentious.
Genuine.
Personal.
The above statement is all of those descriptions and ever so much more.
Currently I am hard at work on Blanc Screen Cinema’s epic new film Unitard and the Great American Comedy Swindle.
The basic story idea for the movie came from a night of driving around with my friend Gabe Green, who is to playing the mentally challenged heart of the film, Arbuckle (aka Unitard…don’t ask).
Gabe came up with the idea of having a stand-up comedian kicking a retarded guy in the balls on stage in order to shock his audience, since it seems that there’s nothing left for comedy to do these days.
Using that basic outline, I took the themes and ideas Gabe and I had come up with and constructed a cohesive, narrative feature length screenplay and fleshed-out characters.
Last night, Gabe, myself, and the film’s star Ryan Erke sat around to discuss what we all thought of what I considered to be the final draft of the script.
Hours of arguing ensued.
Seeing as how I’m the director and writer of the movie, could it be considered “my movie.” Sure.
But without Gabe, there would be no Unitard.
Without Gabe, the stand up comedian aspect of the movie wouldn’t be there either.
Without his ideas of putting the story in a stand up comedy framework, I wouldn’t have developed the themes and the questions the movie is raising about how far comedy needs to go before it’s just mean and cruel.
So is the movie just as much Gabe’s as it is mine, even though he didn’t slave away at the script for three months and isn’t directing?
Absolutely.
In my opinion, Gabe has a tubby guy comedic brilliance that rivals that of John Belushi.
This movie would not work without him.
He’s what will give this picture it’s heart.
During our arguing last night, Gabe was bringing up specific jokes and ideas that he felt the script needed for him to be as satisfied with the final product as I would be.
I was tossing out the usual director ramblings about this movie being “my vision” and stating that I feel I have a pretty good sense of what makes comedy work and some of his ideas just weren’t working for me.
Gabe felt I was being too dismissive of his ideas, since this movie meant as much to him as it does to me.
It wasn’t until later reflection that I realized the reasons I was having trouble accepting Gabe’s ideas is that I’ve never really collaborated on a movie with anyone.
It’s always been me writing and directing my own films.
Gabe may not have physically written the script, but he was the heart of what was being written.
I want Gabe to be satisfied with the final film.
In order for that to happen, both of us are going to have to make compromises.
But at what point does compromising become giving up on your ideas and selling yourself short?
I’ve never worked with someone that’s gotten me as frustrated as Gabe.
But he has every right to get equally as frustrated at me as I’ve gotten at him.
This is just as much his movie as it is mine.
So let’s take a look at how my “vision” differs from that of Gabe’s:
I view Unitard and the Great American Comedy Swindle as kind of my love letter to comedy.
I have many different ideas and concepts on what makes comedy work and they all contradict each other, which I think is what makes what I do work.
But at the most basic level, I like the idea of something being so undeniably and uncompromisingly stupid that it reaches a level of comedic brilliance.
I like to raise questions with my comedy, but not have those questions over-power the comedy.
I also have no interest in pleasing everyone.
The kind of humor I do is not for all tastes and to dismiss it as insulting or stupid or sickening or whatever is easily justified.
Gabe on the other hand, is the most accepting and kind-hearted person I know.
In many ways, he wants to make everyone happy, even if it’s at his own expense.
There’s a self mutilator character in the script that is played for laughs (I wrote an article about where this self mutilation idea came from months ago), which both Gabe and Ryan feel isn’t funny at all.
Fine.
That’s understandable.
But it’s staying in the movie.
Gabe’s main interest in this movie is to make the audience think and affect them on an emotional level.
The comedy comes second.
That is the exact opposite of me.
So when all is said and done, I want Gabe to be just as happy with this flick as I am.
I’ve never had to deal with compromise before.
I’ve always been the ringleader of this freak show that is Blanc Screen Cinema.
But Gabe’s worldview is important to the movie.
And more than that, it’s important to me.
It’s even more important to me than the movie itself.
I know most certainly that we will never meet eye to eye on our ideas, but the most important part is finding some sort of happy medium.
In many ways, I feel bad about altering “my vision” of what this picture should be to please someone else, but what is more important to me is making Gabe just as happy with the movie as I am.
It’s even more important to me than the movie itself.
Compromise is a funny little thing.

-- Jay Bauman, Blanc Screen Cinema
