Jan 24, 2002
Once Upon a Waste of Time: an Excaliburger Review
https://archive.is/RwER9 (REwind Video Magazine)

Amateur comedy is tricky.
Most of the time, amateur comedies are full of in-jokes that make no sense to anyone who doesn’t know the filmmakers personally, or the personalities of the actors in the movie, therefore making them nearly unwatchable to the uninitiated.
It takes a great deal of skill to construct a comedy shot on video with a bunch of friends accessible to an outside audience.
The audience needs to be let in on the joke from the start.
If they’re not, nothing that follows will make them laugh.
As an outside observer, Excaliburger did indeed make me laugh.
A lot.
It is by far the funniest amateur comedy I’ve ever been exposed to.
Director Garrett Gilchrist’s historical comedy epic about fast food, unemployed dragons, disgruntled mirrors, and “The Spatula in the Stone” not only knows it’s limitations as an amateur comedy, but wears it’s shoddiness on it’s sleeve from frame one.
It carries a certain amount of pride for it’s laughable special effects and cheesy punchlines.
The movie looks like it was a lot of fun to make, and it certainly is a lot of fun to watch.
It’s a joke-a-minute type of comedy, in the vein of Monty Python or David Zucker.
With this type of humor, the jokes are always fairly hit-or-miss.
Thankfully, this movie’s misses are few and far between.
The plot, as inconsequential as it is, revolves around Spanky (Gilchrist), a fast food employee who gets fired after just three days at work.
With the guidance of Merlin the magician (David Ashe), who is of no relation to the famous Merlin, Spanky embarks on a journey to find the Spatula in the Stone and remove it, thus making him the new king.
To prepare him for his journey, Merlin sends Spanky on several quests that include killing the Fantasmalon monster, retrieving “The Sword From Whatever the Sword is From,” and making his way through the Hall of Mirrors.
Along the way, Spanky befriends a boy squire named Arthur (Michelle Caruso), who is actually a female (“by birth only,” she insists) that joins him on many of his adventures.
As stated above, the plot is of little importance.
The movie is basically one skit after another, with the plot thrown in to connect them all.
What really makes this movie shine is the performances.
Gilchrist is excellent as the naïve and constantly irritated Spanky.
For some, Gilchrist’s performance may come off as annoying, but his constant whining and yelling really amused me.
Michelle Caruso is also really funny as Arthur.
Caruso knows how to deliver this type of material.
The movie’s best moments aren’t the large gags and set pieces, but the bickering that goes on between Spanky and Arthur.
This is all due to the chemistry between Gilchrist and Caruso.
But the real scene stealer is David Ashe.
David Ashe rocks.
He has multiple roles in the film, but the main one is Merlin, who is by far the funniest and best written character in the flick.
Anything Ashe does is funny, whether it’s trying to grab a pickle jar away from Spanky (“I want to eat them! They’re crunchy and delicious!”) or commenting on washing his pig (“Oh, I have a dirty, dirty pig.”).
There are some people that can make the word “fuck” funny all by itself (Rich Evans and Jack Black being two of them) and David Ashe falls into that category.
The smaller players such as Justin Bielawa as Stan/Satan and Jennifer Simmons as Oona the size shifter are also very good.
Gilchrist is very entertaining as an actor, but where he really excels is as a writer.
Every scene is basically it’s own sketch, and just about every sketch is a million times funnier than anything seen on Saturday Night Live in the last few years.
One of my favorites is the MacDonald’s commercial, which basically comes out of nowhere and has little to do with the rest of the movie.
“Come to MacDonald’s! Eat Bloody Shit!” is probably the funniest line in the movie.
I start laughing just thinking about it.
Another great set pieces is when Spanky enters a Fairy kingdom, where the word “fairy” refers not only to the inhabitants being small and having wings, but also to being very feminine and flamboyant.
Random Fight Club references are always appreciated too.
Not everything about the movie works of course.
The Mummy of Good Taste is very random and is poorly introduced, causing more confusion than laughter.
Also, the story starts to meander after a bit.
There’s only so many times we need to see Merlin send Spanky on yet another quest.
Also, to put it bluntly, the camera work is terrible.
Gilchrist has said the reason for this is that he was in front of the camera for most of the movie and had someone else in charge of shooting, but that still doesn’t justify shot-reverse shots where both the actors are looking off camera in the same direction.
In a way though, the horrible camera work adds to the humor and spirit of the film, so it can be easily overlooked.
For me, humor is the heart of what makes humanity so interesting.
While it’s not a very deep or emotionally driven movie, there is a moment late in Excaliburger that really struck a chord with me and gives me the feeling Gilchrist shares that sentiment.
Arthur comments that Merlin the Magician isn’t much of a magician at all, he’s basically just a guy with a few tricks he can do, as we all are really.
That made me smile.
It’s one of those little character moments that shows how heartfelt the movie really is.
In the end, we truly are just a bunch of people with a few tricks we can do, and in Garrett Gilchrist’s case, making me laugh is one of those tricks.

--Jay Bauman

P.S. Hey Garrett, have you given Michelle Caruso my proposal for marriage yet?
