Jan 29, 2002
Here's to You! by Wally Fong
https://archive.is/dvuX9 (REwind Video Magazine)

Now that I have finally settled back into my igloo back up here in Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
I’d just wanted to express my feelings on Camp Rewind, the R:IMF, and the RMA2.
First off, hands down, my hat goes off to Michael and Marc Linn for being the instrumental keystone to the rickety old bridge that all of us crossed to get to the awards and festival.
Not only do I have to thank the Linn brothers but their wives as well for putting up with us Canucks.
For a first year festival I would have to say that the R:IMF was a success in my mind.
As many festivals are like in the beginning, the turn out to them are less than gargantuan.
We worked with what we had and everyone prospered.
This year was more of a festival for the filmmakers than the public, as Michael pointed out to us recently.
That is absolutely fine with me.
Meeting fellow moviemakers for the first time was a gigantic thrill for me.
It felt like meeting an old friend for the first time.
At no point during my stay in the United States of America was I ever disappointed.
Although the weather the first few days were less than appealing I can honestly say now that within our combined collective we must have at least 20 hours of storm and lightning footage.
Whether in fact or in spirit, or what ever you may call us: Amateur/No-budget moviemakers.
Everyone acted in the utmost professional manner that only Ivy League professors demand.
Everyone but Garrett that is (kiddin’).
Just being able to work with people outside of the company I work with now was amazing.
The cooperation of so many different people from so many different places of North America was nothing short of mind blowing.
Jason Santo you are the man!
You knew exactly what you wanted from your crew and your talent and never waived from your vision.
But if I hear you say “Hella Hella ” again my brain might just explode! (kiddin’).
You are truly dedicated to the art of no-budget filmmaking and an avant-garde in our little community.
I truly mean that and just because he’s seen me naked in the shower and no he’s not gay.
Michael Linn the optimist.
You saw a potential in Rewind that I don’t even think Jon nor I could of seen.
You are a gracious host and forward thinking man.
Rapid city would have been just another town if it weren’t for you and your brothers work in the community.
Finding out that you were a magician like Jon naturally made me suspicious in general but I got over it.
Simple things amaze me, like the French drop.
You seem to do it better than Jon too.
That can be left up to debate.
Marc Linn the front man.
Seeing you in Indiana Jed reminds me of where we all are now.
Seeing now gives me hope as to what we can be in the near future.
Never forgetting where you’re from is probably the only single thing that keeps a man humble.
You are that man.
Erin and Adam, er..
Alan Winston you two are too cool for school.
I’ve finally met somebody mellower than Jon.
Alan you are an edit whiz kid and all round nice guy.
I’m waiting to see more Star Wars stop motion from you folks.
Erin you remind me of the All-American girl: Wit, charm, and nice shoes.
Hope to you two next year.
April Cressey-Santo, (I think that sounds better).
You are smarter than you look, stayed low key but in sight.
Knowing more than you let on but willing to know more.
All round supporter and sweetheart.
You are a classy lady and Jason is lucky to have you as a wife.
Garrett Gilchrist, you bastard!
Sounds funny but appropriate.
Seriously, your quirky behaviour and willingness to drawn attention away from me when I do something stupid was great.
Excaliburger was an excellent film.
I laughed my ass off.
Your short films were nothing short of amazing.
You put ample thought and creativity into your work and I salute you
Mike Stoklasa, like a rock.
You didn’t speak too much, but when you did I listened to you.
Your body of work is staggering.
Your Oranges series alone should have and will make you millions one day.
You have a solid rep for making movies people want to see and you know how to make people laugh from the inside.
I hope to see you next year as well.
Kick Rich Evans in the groin for me!
Jay Bauman, you have my most utmost respect from me.
Who gives a fly bag of monkey crap if people walked out of Trouble with her Uterus.
It was a great film!
If people actually stuck it out and watch till the end there was a good morale to the story; which although may escape most people, it did not escape me.
Add to the fact that you edited the entirety of Trouble and Disconnected camera to camera is a shear and amazing feat in itself.
Anytime you want me to play a deaf-Chinese-driving-instructor-kung-fu-fighting-DJ give me a call.
Queequeg Films, you guys are the shits!
Tony you definitely know how to make a grandiose movie.
I will never look at another plastic bag the same way again.
Christian you have been the fat kid comic relief in the movie, but in real life you were the fat kid comic relief.
Wait that didn’t sound right (kiddin’).
Jeremy you are one hell of a funny guy.
Your on the spot witticism and funny one liners makes you an outstanding comedian.
Ryan, you’re a great musician and all round blonde guy.
Thanks for the foreign candy bar.
Chris, man you got your shit together, excellent fight work in The Bags.
I hope to make an action movie with you someday.
Last but not least Natalie, well I think Jason Santo said it the best to me when we were driving alone one night and he was drunk, your “Hella Hella Hot!”
Rusty Hoot!
Jared and Daniel, man you guys rock.
Mormons with Swords was a wicked film and Alpine Mediocrity was totally SIC!
Both of you guys were very out going and fantastic to talk to.
If you ever make another ski movie again let me know and I’ll strap on the Rossi’s and perform.
Chubby Ninja, Rob and Garrett!
You guys took the impossible and made it work for you.
Ninja Night School was bloody hilarious beyond words.
The Chair was a classic!
I hope to see more from you guys soon.
Maybe even a N.N.S.2: The exchange student.
Well working title of course.
Lastly Deviant Films!
You guys were generally quiet but that’s ok because The I Don’t Players Club rocked the llama’s ass!
Although I believe that’s the only film I’ve seen from you guys I see the potential.
You guys were also the only one that stayed to watch everything that was shown too.
That takes patience.
I cannot wait for your next film.
While some films that were shown were nominated and some were not it did not matter in the end.
The Rewind Movie Awards is never about competition.
It’s about showing our best to the world and giving props to those that deserve it.
I know all of this true because nobody at the Awards dinner or presentation was disappointed with the outcomes of the show.
If they were then they hide it well.
Whe it comes down to it, who really gives a damn what a hand full of beer drinking, dogsled riding, lumberjack, movie making, back bacon eating Canadians care aboot eh?!
In my eyes the RMA’s is just another excuse to assemble the best of the best of the no-budget filmmaking community together in place to celebrate a year achievement in movie making.
In closing, as I sit in my office drinking a Red Bull which I smuggled across the border (and is apparently about to be banned in Canada) I’d like to say that for better or for worse, I will back each and every single one of you film makers out there, just as long as you give everybody else a chance.

See you all next year

Cheers..

Wally..

Rewind Video Magazine (like you didn’t know)
