Feb 5, 2002
Stoklasa on Deathlist: A Review
https://archive.is/Qc2gc (REwind Video Magazine)

Deathlist is a somewhat decent first effort from Foxpack productions, but falls prey to nearly every amature movie snag in the book - a subject that is near and dear to my heart.
I think if have a reputation for not liking most amature films, which is true.
I'll fully admit that.
It takes a lot to impress me and so far only a handful of films have.
I can smell when a film is imitating something Hollywood has done and not being original or inventive.
In other words, I get irritated very easily.
This does not mean that I don't still enjoy amature movies, I do!
I promise!
But most are like rough drafts for the filmmakers, not really entertainment.
Well, actually.....
to me amature movies are only really entertaining when nudity is involved.
Or if someone accidentally hurts themselves on camera.
While no one got hurt (as far as I know) in the production of Deathlist, there were a few bathtub and shower scenes which standout as the highlights of the film, thanks to screen star Andrea M Garay.
The rest of the film is kind of a blur and serves as standard progression of events and imitations of real movies, lacking any coherent semblance or creativity.
Like I said, it's a good first effort, but it needs work if there is to be two more films in this trilogy.
I am here to offer some tough love and advise to Guy, because if we as a community are going to continue to refer to our own works as movies (complete with stylish posters and hip websites) I think they should be deconstructed as such.
“good job” comments will only get us so far, and some basic issues are screaming to be mentioned.
Guy needs to slow down a bit and do a little more craft-perfecting before he starts planning out trilogies in advance.
Certainly the box art looks nice and the website is top notch, but the movie was rushed and is a mess.
Shooting some short films as practice will help get the ball rolling.
Now, on to the review.
Deathlist is a scream-inspired horror film with a cast of unlikable protagonists and predictable corny plot elements.
Complete with standard loud shocking moments.
It is as if a rulebook was followed on how to execute bad horror clichés, but without any new inventiveness or even a basic level of creativity.
For example, OTS shot of guy opening the mirror - note: nothing in the mirror behind him.
Then when he closes the mirror....cue thunder .wav sound effect and BOOM there stands killer!
An awkward stabbing then occurs, the tri-pod is bumped, and it’s finished off with a slow shaky zoom in.
The film contains a handful of other moments like this all using the same thunder sound effect and all equally as predictable.
Girl turns around and guy is there - cue thunder sound FX, Killer is revealed behind refrigerator - cue sound effect, etc.
Moments we’ve all seen in horror and may make you jump in a loud theater, but on my home TV it’s...well...yawn.
I think I may judge amature movies to harshly, but when they don't contain the previously mentioned things that entertain me (nudity and people accidentally hurting themselves) I have nothing more than to search for a good story or some new twists on material.
Both these things are lacking in Deathlist.
From my perspective, amateur film has the potential to be a real breeding ground for experimentation and freedom.
You can make films the Independents or Hollywood wouldn’t dare to make due to financial risks.
From fecal matter hurling apes to dry-as-fuck drama movies, no one will tell you what to do!
It’s magic!
No producer is hounding you, no worries about how to market it, none of the baggage that the business end of the motion picture industry comes with.
If you want to make a three-hour film about a gay-ninja-robot-nazi-nun from mars, there will be no one to interfere.
So it boggles me why people make by-the-number imitations of Hollywood dreck?
It’s only gonna be a notch lower in quality - you’re shooting on video!
With actors that suck!
Show some T and A for heavens sake.
Or hit your little brother with a hammer!
I want to see the schlock!!
I want to be taken somewhere new!
Okay, so let's begin with plot basics.
In horror films (and in all other movies) It's absolutely important to identify and like the main female heroin.
She is the character we root for and relate to (I say she cause in horror it usually is).
She's the one we fear for when the killer is trying to kill her at the end.
She is usually shy and kind and is surrounded by friends that are vapid and arrogant.
The first Halloween is a great example of this as is the 4th one (my favorite) Also Nightmare on Elm Street 4 is too (another favorite) Unfortunately, in Deathlist there is nothing to know about our lead other than she looks good walking around in her panties.
Nothing other than that.
Totally nothing.
There is no attempt at back-story, character quirks, relationship with other characters, or anything else.
Even in the mild plotting sense of horror films.
Sure, she's in love with guy who remains missing the whole film, but that relationship is not established other than simply pointing out that they are dating.
Plus it's earsplitting to hear her say "Hello? Helloooo? Hello? Fuck? Hello? Is anyone there? Who the fuck is this?"
When I get a call I say things like that.
I repeat the word fuck over and over again cause it’s usually a telemarketer, but in movie logic characters instantly assume that it’s a killer so they must act ultra-defensive and scared.
Also, when I’m home alone at night I tend to walk around my house carefully locking the doors and acting suspicious even though I have no reason to other than the fact that I might happen to be in a horror movie.
There are some neat moments where Andrea has nightmares about her missing beau.
There is a neat quick-shock turn around that was executed well by Guy, but the dream scenes are devoid of any new information other than to just have a dream sequence.
To complete the circle of uninterestingness, Guy has no character at all whatsoever.
He answers the phone in the beginning and says, “yeah, I’ll be right over” but that is his only line in the whole film until the very end.
During which he stumbles around confusedly as a prisoner of the villain.
There is a supporting cast of guys that are there to be killed off one by one, that serve no real purpose to anything other than to appear to have a cast of hip characters as seen in previous horror films.
One guy is a turncoat who sells his friends lives out for 700 bucks in a very logic-less subplot.
The other guy is a perverted beer drinker with a highly irritating voice.
His character trait is that he talks to himself and spouts out expository lines of dialogue.
Example: Character walks into kitchen of a house that isn’t his and opens the refrigerator saying, “Guess I’ll start drinking alone, I’ll crack open this cold one” After the lights go out the character then sadly continues to talk aloud proudly announcing his every action as dictated in the screenplay.
“Shit, better get out my lighter cause the powers out” and “Where does this fool keep all of his wax candles at?” this coupled with the auto-focus going in and out (due to low light) makes me think Detective Jack Wolf should get on this case.
Were we supposed to care in the slightest way about this guy?
Were we supposed to fear for his safety?
Then there was the other guy who was just a guy with glasses on?
He shows up later, but looks a little different and I wasn’t sure if it was the same guy, cause now he talks differently.
In any case he served no real purpose.
But let’s discuss these side characters and the vital role that play in horror films.
The audience is familiar with the horror routine and usually expects these characters to be killed off quickly, so a great deal of effort shouldn't be placed into getting to know them to well.
However, we can at least make them somewhat interesting.
All three guys in Deathlist all have the same thick Boston accents.
They laugh, look at the camera, and you can't hear what they're saying because the mike is too far away and there is a humming noise from the furnace (in an awkwardly framed shot where three-fourths of the screen is headroom).
If you want to do horror at the very least toss in some clichéd gimmicks to make some of the kill-em-offs interesting and fun to see die.
Make one a boxer, make a goth girl, a gay hairdresser, a snotty female law student, and an alcoholic boyfriend who works on cars.
Then give them all ironic deaths.
Law student gets beaten with her own textbook.
Gay hairdresser gets head shoved in electric dryer, etc....and for gods sake show some gore!
Horror doesn't have to be comedy, but if you're amature, you're never gonna be Silence of the Lambs so why not have some fun with it?
Take a lesson from Freddy Krueger, if anyone knows how to kill with irony it's him.
Then there’s the good old "bathtub law".
This is a general concept I concocted while watching a nauseatingly bad short at film school.
It’s more of a fundamental idea, rather than a literal bath-tub scene (even though there is a bathtub scene in Deathlist, no one gets killed) The logic came from a typical guy-stalks-girl film I saw where the guy kills the girl at the end - conveniently in an empty bathtub.
This is, of course, so large amounts of blood can be cleaned up with no problem (I am guilty of this in an early high school film) To me this shouts “lazy filmmaker” and is painfully obvious they killed her in the bathtub for this reason.
Please note: this rule does not apply to the shower scene in Psycho, it merely shows that poor results come from shortcuts taken at the expense of the plot.
But what can one do?
Get blood on mom’s carpet?
Shoot in the woods where all sorts of things can be flung about and discarded?
Maybe.
But this is where basic film making ideas can be applied, and a three-dimensional thought process comes into play.
Have Girl get stabbed standing in living room.
Then Find a large piece of carpet that matches the kind in the house (steal sample from store) and spill blood on that in a close up.
People will say "oh my god, you got blood on the carpet!" (assuming the editing is seamless).
Such risks/innovations must be experimented with and tested in films.
In Deathlist there is a scene where guy removes his handcuffs made out of yarn by burning them on a lit candle.
Cut to CU of yarn-cuffs near candle (note: shot is out of focus) then MED shot of yarn falling off......in one long piece - not showing any signs of a break.
Huh?
No burn mark?
Such an effect can’t be hard to create, but yet it wasn’t?
Andrea gets tied up as well, but the audience will soon discover that contrary to popular belief, a person that has been knocked out can sit upright against a wall until they come around.
They don’t not slump over due to the forces of gravity.
Maybe the actress didn’t want to get her clothes dirty?
That’s what thrift stores and washing machines are for.
Don’t be afraid to damage things, hurt people, or make someone uncomfortable in order to get that shot.
Don’t fall victim to the bath-tub rule.
Objects and people are easily replaceable and worth getting a shot that doesn’t look liked you wimped out.
Or find a way to trick people into thinking you took risks.
Harrison Ford didn’t really put his face up against a cobra, they used a mirror.
Figure it out.
In addition to logic problems I had a major problem with what I saw as the centerpiece of the film (other than the shower scene).
The killer’s costume.
It was very not-so-cool, and very not-so-scary.
They spent some money on a neat mask from Death Studios (I got the GMP Satan mask from them - nice people) but the killer's costume comes off as clumsy and not really very scary in a film where we are asked to be scared.
The motive of the killer is that he's trying to be a grim reaper of sorts; killing off the friends of his good twin brother on a Deathlist (note: killer is the evil twin brother) The problem I had with the costume is with proportion.
The mask is large and is placed on an actor that is short, making the head-to-body ratio comical (think Rick Moranas in Spaceballs).
Plus the killer wears an Adidas black windbreaker hoodie.
That and the pair of shiny black tuxedo shoes and sweat pants make the final costume appear more like a clumsy Jr. High kid out trick-or-treating, rather than the evil legacy of the Grim Reaper.
Yes I know it wasn't really the grim reaper, but at least try to make it cool.
I envisioned a 7-foot tall towering actor with a long black flowing robe and a huge vulgar shiny scythe stalking his victims.
The filmmakers also need to remember to keep the skull face ever so slightly hidden until the very end.
Give um a little bit of the eyes....but not too much and try and make it as haunting as possible.
If we’ve learned anything from Blair Witch it’s that sometimes what we can’t see can be the most frightening of all, and certainly seeing the details of the molded rubber doesn’t help.
A good horror villain is more than a nice mask.
It’s his presence, appearance, and actions.
And let me stress again that it’s very important that he be tall, tall is scary.
Short is not.
Tall implies dominance.
Don't have an actor that tall?
Strap some blocks on the bottom of his shoes - short round style.
Don't have a big black robe?
Head on out to the thrift store and buy some black bed sheets, then have Mrs.
Mcrackenberry sew it together to resemble a cloak.
Toss in some smoke FX to make the robes flow menacingly.
Don't have a smoke machine?
Give your little brother a large piece of cardboard to fan the smoke from a smoke bomb.
Then back light the Reaper so the smoke looks all cool flowing up the flapping appendages of the cloak.
Don't have a backlight?
Use a halogen lamp.
Don't have a halogen lamp?
Use an old Light Bright, those things used to get pretty fucking hot.
Who’s brilliant idea was it to put black paper next to a burning hot light bulb and let a four-year-old play with it?
Maybe the same genius who let 6 year olds cook shit with a light bulb in an EZ-Bake Oven.
Wonder what other toys they’ve made with light bulbs?
Or what other uses they have?
Wait, don’t answer that.
Anywho, where was I?
Oh, yes!?
All in all, in time one learns to use the resources at hand to make things work on screen via learned ingenuity.
In addition to logic and production design problems there was also the pacing problem.
Pacing is the single most important issue in amateur movies and probably the most overlooked.
The viewer must be refreshed with new information in order to keep them from getting board.
The movie needs to be one step ahead of the viewer.
If the viewer is three steps ahead of the movie they are going to loose interest.
In other words, get to the point as quickly as possible.
Ask yourself: what is the new information we’re introducing here and how can I get it across swiftly?
There are a few very long P.O.V. scenes where killer cleans his knife of for minutes at a session.
It gets old very fast.
Also there is a sequence where guy looks around the basement with a running time of nearly 2 minutes, longer than a lot of short films.
I guess the intention was that we were supposed to be on edge cause we didn’t know where the Grim Reaper was, but none of that was set up well.
I don’t know who Guy’s character is so I don’t care if he dies.
I’m not scared of the Grim Reaper, mainly because it’s been established that he’s not going to kill Guy plus he’s comical looking.
No tension is created.
If we are shown where the reaper is and the character doesn’t know it’d create some tension.
This is when people in a movie theater yell, “damn, look out girl! don’t go in there!” because they are frustrated.
Frustration = suspense.
Carefully decide what information you want to give the audience and what information you want to hold back.
Tease them and make them uncomfortable.
Make them wonder what is going to happen next by giving only a little at a time.
Horror is not a rubber mask.
Horror is not the same music track repeated over and over again in a dark basement.
It’s infinitely more complex than that, just ask that Hitchcock guy.
I'm not gonna bitch about technical stuff for too long, but I must mention a few pet peeves of mine.
Tripod.
Always.
Unless hand held is absolutely desired for some reason or you’re good at it.
This makes the world of difference.
Framing shots is also very important - there were lots of oddly framed shots with useless headroom or the person is awkwardly framed in the bottom left hand corner for no reason at all.
Close-ups help as well to discover what people look like.
It also will bring out the subtleties of a performance in facial reactions.
Last but not least, my biggest pet peeve......auto-focus.
When shooting in low light turn off the auto-focus cause it's going to pulsate with the slightest movement.
If you're shooting in broad daylight it's okay, but in low-light no.
Set your focus and put it in manual.
If you need to pull focus do that or find a way to work a cut in there.
These issues can also be applied to manual/auto exposure as well.
When one pans over to a widow the camera will grab at that brighter light and auto-expose for the outdoors, making the inside area darker.
This is bad if you’re filming someone inside, unless you want that all-black look.
To conclude, from being a fan of old school horror, there is a big difference between being scared and true horror.
A difference between shocking people with a loud sound and actually terrify them.
This is why amature horror just doesn't really work for me.
Suspension of disbelief is constantly being shattered by the general quality of the production, so it's pretty hard to actually be scared.
Most low budget horror tends to drift towards exploitation, fetish, and gore to make up for this.
I think it's the hardest genera to pull off honestly.
I think that’s why I've never really tried to take any of the horror movies I've done too seriously.
Most are just absurdly violent (general gore) or absurdly stupid (jester).
Deathlist seems to be innocent of this idea and tries to tell a story, complete with predictable twists and expository dialogue.
But in the end I think it was a film that may have needed to get out of Guy’s system.
An experiment in assembling a cohesive story and to copy and reproduce elements seen in other horror films.
Not very original, but it is a good first effort.
I hope Foxpack will consider some of the things I’ve written here as they continue making their Deathlist trilogy.
Guy shows a great deal of promise for quality future films, but he’s still got a bit of ironing to do.

-- Mike Stoklasa, GMP Pictures
