Feb 28, 2002
The Stupidest Thing I've Ever Seen, Part 2; Or, Watch These Movies or the Guy in the Garfield Suit Gets Angry
https://archive.is/nV645 (REwind Video Magazine)

Okay, a little digression here.
I've got a "long-haired rockabilly cartoonist" dad living back in Connecticut, and a longish while back I was on a visit and showing him the second rough cut of my first real feature "The Phantom Movie." He wasn't enjoying it much.
We got to the point toward the end where the little army needs to stage a great war without any money to do it with (a reference to our own lack of budget), and so they beat the hell out of a huge army of ...
lawn chairs.
They attack and are nearly defeated by ...
lawn chairs.
Inanimate lawn chairs.
The sequence goes on for more than ten minutes.
My dad turned to me and said, and there was a faint smile on his face here, "This is the stupidest thing I've ever seen." He was used to my old flicks I'd shot in my basement, and expected a "war" to happen with action figures on a tabletop perhaps.
But this was large-scale stupidity, with half the cast there making total asses of themselves for a sequence with only minor relevance to the plot.
It hurt, too.
Fighting with lawn chairs hurts.
The stupidest thing he'd ever seen, my dad called it, and this is a guy who watches movies like "Return of Chandu" and "Bride of the Gorilla," and likes them.
("Bride of the Gorilla," starring Raymond Burr, is actually pretty good.) Anyway, what happens next in the movie is that my two alien guys are walking along in the field with the villainous Lord Hologram, and the alien I play says to him, "Lord Hologram, this is the stupidest thing we have ever seen." That's right, kids, the film itself echoed my father's words just seconds later.
Meaning, according to the original script, this was SUPPOSED to be the stupidest thing ever.
I didn't think we'd ever achieve that, but somehow the job got done.
It's not utter stupidity I strive for in my films, but it was utter stupidity we achieved in that scene that day.
The reason I say this is, some of the movies of GMP Pictures make my lawn chair battle scene look like the least stupid thing ever.
Like a Shakespeare sonnet of non-stupidity and relevance.
I mean this in the best possible way.
GMP is brilliantly stupid.
What can you say about a satanic jester shouting "Ohh, my groin" and a 15-minute scene of a man beating hell out of a plastic doll?
Many of their movies would not be called comedies if they didn't invite so much ridicule, and ridicule themselves, so often.
These are the guys who gave us a short called "Monkey Man Gets His," which not only stars a big monkey, it also gives the impression of having been written and directed by one.
A monkey with an eye for defecation and drugs, and profanity-mumbling grandmothers.
Possibly conceived as an experiment to create the worst amateur film ever, it is best described as an experimental film.
It can also be called a drug film.
Mike Stoklasa gives the impression of having been on drugs when he edited it.
The editing is the best part of the film, as it ignores the footage and cuts and recuts purely for the hell of it.
I could watch this movie over and over.
It gives me very nasty ideas.
Many GMP movies, especially the shorts, just seem to defy reviewing.
They are also beautifully shot and photographed, and look better on video than 90% of the amateur stuff that's out there right now, just because of director/editor Mike Stoklasa's obvious love for whatever footage he shoots, from production to editing to the final release.
It's all crisp and colorful without losing its rawness, with just the right level of production value it needs to sustain itself.
When it wants to, the video looks like video.
When it wants to, if you squint your eyes a bit and ignore what your brain says, it can look vaguely like film.
And even if Mike were to edit another company's footage, it would still feel like a GMP film, because his style of editing is so distinct.
And near-professional.
And stupid, and perfect for what he does.
(There is this wonderful short he cut out of footage taken at a Buddhist temple -- Mike added bizarre edits, slowed-down sound, animal noises, fart noises, to really make a mockery out of the thing ...
there's also the matter of the hallucinogenic short which inserted a suicidally insane Rich Evans into the videos of the Olsen Twins.)
GMP movies, after you've seen a few, become oddly compulsive watching.
You can't take your eye off the screen.
It's like watching a really good, real movie where all the opening credits were misspelled and the cast was replaced with talking dolls and fast food clerks and the script was stolen from some high school kid's email, or made up as the talking dolls went along.
Like someone set out to make the worst good movies ever.
Like the movie's not messed-up, it's just that you're living in the wrong world.
They also redo their logo.
A lot.
GMP doesn't have as much of a web presence as other companies - in fact, I find their website rather lame.
But make no mistake, their movies are some of the best, most original, well-made and entertaining amateur fare out there.
Mike Stoklasa and his lead actor/messiah of evil Rich Evans should now be counted as a major filmmaking force.
Their tapes belong in every amateur filmmaker's library ...
even Lloyd Kaufman's.
Writer/director/editor Mike Stoklasa hails from the suburbs of Chicago, Illinois.
He, like Jay Bauman, is entertained by things normal people don't like.
Stoklasa, though, takes it to the limit, creating true and utter shlock.
This is best evidenced by his short work, in which lead actor Rich Evans would be menaced constantly by aliens, get hit in the groin a lot, and beat hell out of a 3-foot doll called Mooshoo in movie after movie.
And the camera is usually handheld.
"Star Track: First Contract" has to be seen to be believed -- very loosely inspired by Star Trek, the short has a cardboard set which falls apart exposing the living room behind it, "actors" who call for scene changes and make no attempt to get into character at all, a Borg in a paper Steven Seagal mask ...
basically take every AWFULLY-made amateur movie you've ever seen or made, and multiply the ineptitude by a thousand.
The result would be this rather amusing movie.
The phrase "the stupidest thing I've ever seen" certainly comes into play here.
Stoklasa has done longer "feature" pieces, however, over an hour in length, including the 90-minute "Blunt Justice" (2000) and "Oranges: The Movie" (2000).
These are built for more "normal" moviegoers, and are definitely your best introduction to GMP.
The best movie to order is by far "Oranges: The Movie," probably Stoklasa's best feature.
Why do I say it's his best?
I have only one criterion for judging - my mother likes it.
Yes, my mother was starved for entertainment recently and stole my copy of R4, which led her on an amateur movie kick which resulted in her watching "Oranges: The Movie."
She REALLY liked this one.
I was unsure about Oranges in my earlier review of it, calling it an entertaining but perhaps hollow talking fruit flick.
Seeing it with the audience of my mother, however, proved to me just how entertaining it is, and I marveled again how Evans and Stoklasa were able to create such, er, well-rounded characters out of talking fruit, tell an entertaining and well-structured story, use lots of great miniature effects, and tickle the funny bone of any viewer who isn't dead.
My mother has seen more movies than anyone alive, and is a great judge of what works and what doesn't.
(She was the one who showed me that my 1999 "Phantom Movie" was funny and my 1999 "Animal Game" was interesting but overlong and would never reach a broad audience.) She thought Oranges was brilliant.
She laughed her ass off.
So there you go, that's the Editor's Mom's Movie Review Series, in a nutshell.
"Oranges" is based on six short films of the same name ("Oranges"), which used many of the same characters, including Rich Evans' famed Professor Sunkyst.
Staged with puppeteeting and profanity, it reminds me somewhat of the recent work of Robert Smigel, and could probably get Stoklasa and Evans work on Conan O'Brien.
I can imagine "Oranges" on television every week.
More importantly, it works as a film, and is the most developed entry in the series...though I do love the often self-mocking tone of the earlier "Oranges" shorts...the ending of "Oranges 6" shows Professor Sunkyst and the orange version of Professor Frankenstein on top of a miniature McDonald's.
Frankenstein says, commenting on the set design, "You know what? Though this McDonald's is not very high, I'm going to kill myself."
The orange then falls off the toy building.
"Happy journey," says the Professor Sunkyst Orange as he himself falls sideways, knocking his glasses loose.
"I do so love McDonald's."
Then the camera pans up and zooms in on the fake cloud sky.
You don't get much stupider than that, kids.
I love it.
Basically, Stoklasa loves not taking his movies seriously, showing the seams behind them and the utter stupidity that fuels them.
To say he is "insincere" is like saying the grass is green, or the sky is blue.
He is especially so when voicing one of his own characters.
He does, of course, show a sincere and obvious love for movies.
"Oranges," though, has structure and characters behind the stupidity, as does Blanc Screen's "Trouble With Her Uterus," and I just point this out especially because, if I'm talking about what a great comedy movie needs, it needs these, otherwise it'll never pass the Editor's Mother Test.
There will likely be "Oranges" shorts in the future, but more recently, "Oranges: The Movie" has spawned its own spinoff, "The Care Boars," a cheesy cutout animation parody of all those kids shows about peace and love we had to watch as kids.
Drawn by Rich Evans, this takes that world and addicts it to GMP crack.
The "Care Boars Christmas" short is very funny, and an improvement over the "Oranges: The Movie" scenes that inspired it.
I wanna see more Care Boars now! I noted a lack of color in the Care Boars animation in my earlier Oranges review, but upon watching the second, very funny short, I must say the characters are quite colorful.It's the backgrounds which suck ass.
More hardened GMP fans with a taste for schlock will want to check out "Blunt Justice."
(The rather dumb title is a misnomer - the film has nothing to do with drugs.) Beginning as an interestingly-shot, styrofoam space epic, it mixes human actors and little dolls to eventually turn into an earthbound story of a fat nerd loser kid (Dan DeCola) and his doll Mooshoo (voiced insincerely by Mike Stoklasa), who is really, according to the plot, a fugitive from space, who didn't kill his wife, and has the one-armed doll who did kill her gunning for him too.
This plot is not taken particularly serious by the film -- what it does take seriously is what a loser the kid is, and his love for Mooshoo -- that's right, half this movie is hinged on the unstated homosexual tension between the kid and the doll.
Welcome to GMP-land, folks.
This too is an extended version of the GMP short films -- the "Rich Evans Beats a Doll" and "Possessed Baby" shorts -- which is why the plot makes little sense, going the opposite direction a normal movie would.
When the kid is killed, the movie doesn't mourn him at all -- in fact, Mike Stoklasa has told me he wants the audience to cheer when the kid bites it, because they should just plain hate him.
Stoklasa doesn't put much energy into voicing Mooshoo's fear for his life or his mourning for his wife, but he does put a lot of energy into voicing Mooshoo crapping or "accidentally" wiping his ass on a Jesus statue (the first order of business when Mooshoo comes to earth, actually).
What makes this movie work as well as it does (it was been nominated for Best Picture at the Rewind Awards last year) is both its utter refusal to take anything it does seriously and its total attention to detail when creating its low-budget special effects.
Mike Stoklasa is a man who REALLY KNOWS what an intergalactic bounty hunter or an evil space baby or ten species of aliens or a force ray or an invisible shield or a self-destructing space jail would actually look like.
He's got a sense of design that really shows itself in this movie, which makes it easier to accept that half the cast are played by little dolls.
The movie also has a really effective soundtrack.
The bounty hunter.
I haven't yet mentioned the best part of the film, which once you see it makes itself obvious that it was the reason the movie was made.
Now, Rich Evans beat the crap out of this doll a lot in the early shorts, which I didn't know as I was watching this for the first time.
But all through "Blunt Justice" there is this black-clad space bounty hunter who is gunning for Mooshoo (viewers will find it odd that we're not apparently supposed to be scared for Mooshoo's safety at any point).
The bounty hunter has a cool invisible force shield which bends when shot, a lot of guns and may be unstoppable.
When he finally catches up with Mooshoo, the bounty hunter gets hit in the groin, takes his helmet off -- and it's a very silly Rich Evans! That's right, the amateur world's version of Curly Howard himself, and Mooshoo is about to get a beatdown.
A MAJOR beatdown.
Basically, the plot of the movie stops still for about a half an hour as Rich proceeds to trash hell out of Mooshoo, and the room, causing so much damage it's impossible not to be shocked.
It was also impossible for me not to laugh.
This scene is the definition of excess.
It is so incredibly unnecessary and long that you realize the entire movie has been a front, a lie devised just to get this scene in there.
"The stupidest thing I've ever seen."
It was by far the funniest part of the movie for me, even though there wasn't much actual normal-person humor, just Stoklasa's voice saying "ow" insincerely as Rich destroyed the doll and everything in sight for as long as he possibly could.
This won't hold up on future viewings unless you've forgotten some of it, as half the fun of the scene is being unsure just how far into total destruction Evans will go.
By the end, with the kid gone, Evans has become the main character -- this is a movie that abandons all notions of ordinary plot structure, like I said.
It's brilliantly bad.
The worst good movie ever.
Bravo, Mike and Rich.
While I'm at it, and just to be complete in an already long article, here's notes on some other GMP stupidities.
White Thugz (1999) - Not Stoklasa's best, though it won a REwind award for Best Comedy.
It starts with a good premise - two rich white kids who try to act like they're black gangstas...I mean, we all know people like that, and it gets more common every day.
But between the script and the acting, the humor of the idea isn't pulled off very well, and I found it hard to sit through what is just a 1-hour film.
For one thing, (GMP regular) Erik Viznyak and Patrick Chico are so heavily into their "gangsta" voices and attitudes that they never come close to developing actual characters.
Ever.
They are just plain unlikeable, and their one-note act becomes grating very quickly.
The movie makes some humor out of this, but it's clear they just can't carry a film.
It would have been far funnier if they could have slipped up and allowed the rich white kid underneath to show through more (concepts handled with only minor success in two deleted scenes in the "outtakes").
Erik Viznyak, a talent who worked on the script and has done some good work creating music for movies like "Jester," doesn't really have the acting chops to even pull off his "thugz" persona, much less show a real person underneath ...
a pity, as he is given a romantic subplot, wasted in a throwaway dialogue-less ending.
Patrick Chico does better by inhabiting the "thugz" persona pretty fully - he is the better actor - but he isn't particularly "rich white" looking, which kills half the joke, nor does his character ever evolve from the simple stereotype.
There are some funny scenes, though, including a parking lot scene with a helpful black teen, an attempt to sell rock candy, a discussion of Wal-Mart, and Dan DeCola as a nerd (what else?) ...
A lot of the movie feels improvised -- there is a scene where the Thugz argue over what to do with a dead body which seemed right out of a really bad version of "The Animal Game" or something.
(In the outtakes, we get to see an amusing alternate version where every other word is "fuck.") The plot also gets REALLY heavy, unnecessarily so.
The mistake this one made was taking itself too seriously.
It's also more amateurishly shot, written, and edited than GMP's more recent work.
But it does have an attractive and likeable female cast, led by Julie Mackowiak.
And I liked the parking lot drug dealer -- who was that guy?
Jester (1999) - Five minutes into this flick, I wanted to shut it the hell off and be done with it.
It doesn't even feel like a GMP flick.
It feels like pain, it feels like crap.
The film takes its sweet time introducing a cast including Dan O'Connell and Jean McKean, who are unlikeable as all hell.
I mean it, I really hate every character in this movie, I was thinking, and I want them dead.
The sound was bad, the shooting was bad, the acting was sub-par, the editing was off its timing (normally I really like Mike's editing) ...there are also cameos by Erik Viznyak and Nannoo, who aren't any good here either.
I mean it, everyone sucks.
This movie sucks.
But then something happens.
It's a good thing this is a horror movie.
After suffering through those early scenes, I noticed one odd shot -- it was a standing "Evil Dead"-style moving handheld "demon's point of view" kind of shot where the camera just moves toward the house, evilly, but on the soundtrack you heard jingling bells.
BELLS, dammit! That, I thought, was clever, but I wasn't ready to become interested yet.
Then we meet Rich Evans, as the Jester, and immediately I was ready to like this movie.
You see, this is an EVIL Jester, trapped during the time of King Arthur, now escaped after 700 years and wanting to find a bride to populate the world with demonic spawn.
He spouts off snappy one-liners as he kills, and he does it with weapons like candy canes and ornaments and balloons -- every clown or elf or jester cliche, the Jester's got it.
And so, through the choice of a very bizarre villain who kills off most of the characters we don't like, the movie becomes watchably amusing in a cheesy-horror sort of way.
Rich Evans just seems to understand Stoklasa's insane worldview better than most of the other actors in his flicks.
The worst sin in a GMP flick to me would be behaving in a non-GMP way.
And the man can REALLY deliver the line "OHH, MY GROIN!" As for Dan O'Connell and Jean McKean...it's okay, you can try again in the next flick.
I'll give you another shot, but do better next time.
All in all, this is basically a silly horror flick along the lines of the original "Leprechaun." I can think of a few small video companies that would probably pick this up.
Pity about the first few scenes, though.
Without Rich Evans it's sooooo obvious when a movie's just not working.
We're hard on some of these flicks to show the disparity, but even a lesser GMP flick is worth a watch in our book, just because when a company gets great at creating film fare so bad it's good, it's hard to tell the difference between its best work and its, well, worst.
I mean, clearly "Monkey Man Gets His" has to be one or the other.
Doesn't it?
Or is it neither?
Watch out for Mike Stoklasa and Rich Evans, folks.
And not just because they're insane and physically dangerous and armed.
No, these are names you'll be hearing in Hollywood in the future.
So what have we learned, kids?
After analyzing the good and bad points of the amateur comedies we like to watch, how the hell are we supposed to make a really great amateur comedy?
How the hell are we supposed to know what to work on, and what to avoid?
Well, let's review --
Clearly, you need to make yourself laugh.
No matter how warped your own worldview it.
From the obscure Star Wars refs of my own early stuff, to the excessive midget beatings and Orangey naughtiness and carnage of GMP, to the perversion and offhanded wit of Blanc Screen, your own audience, as a filmmaker, should always be yourself.
Make yourself laugh as much as humanly possible when writing.
Then, make your second audience Garrett's mom.
Heh.
You'll please the world a little better that way.
Self-amusement is masturbation.
(That's almost a Fight Club ref, Mr. Jesus.)
And when you're making yourself laugh, you're gonna wind up lacking structure, like a lot of my stuff or Blunt Justice.
If you wanna please Garrett's mom, you'll have to include some structure and take your characters, no matter how ridiculous, seriously.
Don't make the plot too heavy that your characters get lost in it, like the White Thugz -- if this happens beef up your characters, make sure they can sustain a plot as big as you're writing.
Comedy is character.
It is character first and foremost.
Most of your comedy should stem from character, then a little bit from surreal stuff like a guy in a Garfield suit, and naughty stuff like Orange porn.
But first of all, what we've learned from BSC and GMP is to have fun, first and foremost.
Comedy is fun, even when it's painful, even when it's hard.
Dying is easy, but comedy is more fun.

I gotta get back to my script now.

Peace, out, yo. And order from these foos, GMP and Blanc Screen.

Garrett Gilchrist
