Jan 24, 2002
The Long Walk Home: Exposed!
archive.is/RwER9 (REwind Video Magazine)

As most Rewind frequenters know by now, GMP Picture’s latest release, The Long Walk Home, is a fraud.
A prank.
An exercise in excess.
It’s an amateur movie that had been promoted and advertised endlessly for over a year as an epic and groundbreaking entry into the world of no budget filmmaking.
A website was created, rumors were spread, and lots of teaser posters were released for a film that was supposed to be a hard-edged dramatic film (a GMP first) as well as a collaboration of three no-budget film companies (GMP Pictures, Allegory Films, and my own Blanc Screen Cinema).
Many people anticipated its release.
What people finally saw was not an intense crime thriller, but a slowly unraveling parody of amateur movies that take themselves too seriously.
The movie was aimed at the Rewind audience, and they were duped.
Andy Kaufman would be proud.
Speaking of Kaufman, there’s a moment of brilliance in Milos Forman’s otherwise bland Kaufman biopic Man on the Moon where Jim Carrey as Andy asks a meditation guru what the key to being funny is and the guru thinks for a minute, then responds, “Silence.”
That perfectly sums up my feelings on comedy.
It doesn’t always have to get a quick laugh.
The Long Walk Home is a perfect example of this.
There have been plenty of people who have not found the movie funny at all.
They feel betrayed by one of their peers and they’re angry.
But we’ll get into that more in a bit.
In essence, The Long Walk Home is a savage, take-no-prisoners satire on amateur filmmaking.
The movie starts off looking like it’s trying to be good.
The opening scene features Rich Evans crying over his dead wife’s grave and delivering a very cliched speech about avenging her death before being confronted by a thug named Gunter, played by GMP regular Dan Decola.
The scene is played completely straight, but is actually, like most amateur movies, pretty bad.
As the film progresses, its flaws start to seem more and more prominent.
The mic can be seen in shot a few times, the acting is pretty terrible, and it feels like the movie is trying to copy every big budget cop movie ever made.
At some point in The Long Walk Home, and this varies from person to person, it suddenly dawns on the viewer that this movie is bad on purpose.
The big end shootout turns into an orgy of every amateur movie staple imaginable, from poorly staged fight scenes, to bad lighting, to actors looking at the camera…etc.
The movie ends with a hilariously awful pun about a running storyline throughout the movie.
Cut to black.
Cue Benny Hill music.
Watching the movie a second time reveals all the early signs of this being a very well thought out prank.
Part of the effect of the movie is the way it was marketed.
A very well edited trailer was released, but no footage from the trailer is in the actual movie anywhere.
To call the film a slapped together excuse to make fun of amateur films is far from accurate.
The movie itself is not slapped together.
Viewing it a second time will reveal all the early subtleties that went into it’s intentions and the marketing and pre-release hoopla for the movie, which went on for over a year, is part of the point.
One thing that was made a big deal of was the fact that three amateur companies were joining forces to make it.
People in this community are familiar with GMP and Blanc Screen Cinema, but Allegory films was lesser known.
The truth is that Allegory Films doesn’t even exist.
The pictures from the Allegory website are friends of mine (“Dan Ryder,” played in photos by my pal Nick Olsen, is even featured on the Rewind mouse pad).
A rumor was circulated that Rich Evans crashed Allegory crew member Kim Phillips’ car while shooting.
The picture shown on the Long Walk Home website is of a car I happened to see on the side of the street one night.
Some storyboards were posted, but at that point, there was no movie to have storyboards from.
The movie had been advertised for over a year, but was actually filmed in about a month.
So why all the deception?
Why all the manipulation of fellow no budget filmmakers?
What was Mike Stoklasa’s intent?
Many people have gotten upset by the film.
Good.
They should be.
They have been deceived by internet marketing.
Just as any random internet surfer can be deceived by a website advertising a grand World War II epic, ordering the film, and getting a bunch of high school kids running around in their backyard throwing smoke bombs at each other.
Being deceived is the whole point of The Long Walk Home.
The reactions the movie has gotten are good examples of which amateur filmmakers have a sense of humor about shooting a movie with a budget of $10 and which don’t.
If you’re an amateur filmmaker, you must understand your limitations of budget, talent, and resources.
In my opinion, The Long Walk Home is a piece of art.
And like many artists, Mike Stoklasa is the first to admit his flaws.
The truth is, Mike doesn’t like most of his movies.
But what makes them more enjoyable than some other amateur movies I’ve been exposed to is the fact that Mr.
Stoklasa isn’t trying to advertise them as anything other than what they are: schlock, proud and true.
The experience of The Long Walk Home, starting with the website and trailer and leading up to the movie itself, is a message to fellow no budget filmmakers that the key to your movie being received well is not a slick, fancy trailer or a website with flash animation.
That is only going to lead to the viewer being disappointed and probably angry.
Making an amateur movie should be a learning experience, not a pissing contest.
Like it or not, The Long Walk Home and the anger, laughter, annoyance, and name-calling it’s caused, will not go away any time soon.
Isn’t that what art is all about?

--Jay Bauman

P.S. – Garrett Gilchrist is a skinny, whiny nerd. Let’s all make fun of him some more in the forum.

[Editor's Note: In an appropriate twist, our copy of LWH was unavailable when this article went up, so we've used all of our promotional stills instead - none of the included screenshots are even from the film!]
