Sep 19, 2004
Indulgence by Jay Bauman
https://archive.vn/cPLjT (baal-peor.gq.nu)

Indulgence by Jay Bauman of Blanc Screen Cinema is one of those low-budget productions you'll either love or hate depending on your attachment to independent cinema.
Like Clowns and Suicide it has all the markings of a cult film but also has a deeper message about monopolizing corporations.
Even better is the fact that it seems reminiscent of Clerks and more-or-less appeals to general audiences (and those in the BSC cult, of course).
The entire film centers around the character of Melvin Statler (played by Garrett Gilchrist) who discovers that his favorite video store is going out of business.
Sadly for Melvin it's his own father Louie (Chris Wade) that's closing down the shop to expand his thriving internet business - slurfuck.com.
Not only is this site the latest and greatest thing in speech impediment porn but it also features exclusive shots of the lovable Sprinkles Hitler (Lora Story).
Anyway, it seems that most of Melvin's childhood memories center around that particular VHS haven and he quickly takes steps to prevent it's demise.
From eating paint, listening to talking beer bottles and descending into the deepest depths of the black market, the strange (and oftimes annoying) Melvin does what he does - aggravate.
Even when drinking the young man never mellows out and actually becomes more obnoxious.
Seriously, though - who else could have have played this part but Garrett Gilchrist?
Somewhere along the way Melvin discovers that he's fallen in love with nurse Kimba Brentwood (Lauren Burke) and succumbs to the temptation of drinking to adjust his "liquid courage" level.
After he gets piss-drunk (should've added more Cool Bear) he calls her to profess his love but his cell phone dies!
This begins his quest to find a replacement battery and leads him down a path of self-discovery.
In the end Melvin learns a valuable business lesson and discovers that he can be happy doing what he likes.
Who wouldn't want to work in their own old-school video store?
We found the funniest scene in Indulgence to be when Melvin is sitting in an alley with another "happy-pill" loving drunk (Ron Lipski).
Right when the featherweight drinker passes out the other drunk blurts out "I fucking hate Canada!" Well, you'll have to see this scene for yourself to understand what we mean - it's the way it's edited.
This is a genuinely funny 75 minute movie and the numerous "faults" only lend a hand and accent the overall production.
Don't miss the Andy Kaufman impression done by Mr.
Bumbles (the multi-talented Jesse Sorgatz) and catch the cameos by Aliza Rae and Lisa Renley while you're at it.
In this film we liked the characters of Arlo Jenkins (Jay Bauman) and Nurse Brentwood (Lauren Burke) the best.
Of course Melvin's roommate Doug Showalter (Ryan Erke) and the mad Dr. Lipski are also cool.
The acting is exactly what you would expect and you can tell the crew is having fun on camera (that is, when they are).
In addition you can tell when they're agitated - got to love those improv freestyle low-budget productions.
Like Clowns and Suicide there's quite a few DVD extras on this disc like two separate Commentaries!
The first with Ron Lipski, Lora Story, Lauren Burke and Jay Bauman features the prodigious Jesse Sorgatz giving commentary on other motion pictures as well.
The second is with Chris Wade and Jay Bauman and is just as entertaining as the first.
Movie magic!
In addition to Scene Selections, there's also over 5 minutes of Outtakes and a 3 minute Compilation called The Erke Files that features Ryan Erke doing freestyle acting work from the film.
There's an entire section (with commentary no less) devoted to actress Erin Boyle in the Deleted Scenes where she gets to rant about her parts being dropped from the final cut.
This is a particularly funny woman.
Add to all that an Alternate "happy pill sequence" and a 4 minute Behind-The-Scenes.
Not too shabby, huh?
Indulgence is presented in the full-screen format with stereo sound.
Smoker's Soapbox:
Blanc Screen Cinema puts out some highly entertaining low-budget movies and well-assembled DVD discs.
Indulgence is no exception to that rule.
While we hold that Clowns and Suicide is a much better film we also greatly enjoyed Indulgence and look forward to future offerings from the BSC crew.
Jay Bauman knows how to assemble decent films that are completely humorous - imagine what could happen if the man had a real budget.
We dig it - period.
[ 3½ puffs! ] 70%
