Sep 11, 2004
Clowns and Suicide by Jay Bauman
https://archive.is/HXmnY (baal-peor.gq.nu)

Clowns and Suicide by Jay Bauman of Blanc Screen Cinema is an incredibly cool movie.
It has all the classic markings of a low budget production with the added charm of extremely well-developed characters that bring the story to life.
This is total improv bubblegum right here folks and you know what?
It works.
We're fans of Clowns and Suicide and can undoubtedly recommend this title for numerous reasons, most important of which is the "moral" that exists towards the conclusion of the movie.
Certainly an ingredient that is often overlooked in the world of independents.
The story really centers around the homely Matilda (played by Lisa Renley). After the recent suicide of her friend Brian she gathers together a small group of his surviving friends for an experimental "vigil."
As each person arrives tensions arise while each individual shares what the deceased friend meant to them.
Meanwhile the tranquil Siggy (Kyle Laurent) is totally in love with the straight-edge Anne Schwartz (Lauren Burke) but doesn't have the nuts to tell her.
Not only is Schwartz a hottie who had once dated Brian but she's a very talented artist who arrives with a beautiful dedication "piece" assembled in Brian's honor.
Very cool.
Then along comes Nippers!
As soon as the bubby Nippers (Erin Boyle) enters the small apartment the mood shifts to a much more lighthearted one and when the awesome Bumbles the Clown arrives the drama really starts.
Wow!
The power of laughter!
Eventually the evening gets back on track when Nippers eventually gets to showcase her VHS dedication film.
It was well-done wasn't it?
It seemed everyone enjoyed it except the dry-witted neighbor Bianca (Aliza Rae).
Have no fear though!
The super handsome Parker educates her by force in the end.
Something for everybody.
The music by John Brugmann fits the film well and Clowns and Suicide features a great compilation of tracks mostly gleaned from the now-useless mp3.com.
There are occasional animated segments spliced throughout but with the exception of these and Nippers' awe-inspiring video the remainder of the movie is presented in the black & white format which suits it just right.
A great time to be had!
It would be hard to pick just one favorite character with such a memorable cast but it would most likely be a toss-up between the drunken Chet (Mike Stoklasa / White Thugz) and his Dick (Jesse Sorgatz) or Parker (Seth Anderson) who is continually plagued by "excessive man beauty" like many of us - we certainly understand his problem.
This dude gives new meaning to the term "grudge fuck." Mad props go to Ewan (Ryan Erke) who in a fit of rage throws a loveseat sofa on the unfortunate "pimp clown" Bumbles (Rich Evans) resulting in the most comical and unforgettable moment from the 65½ minute movie.
Be sure to catch the cameos of both Jason Santo and Tina Krause during Nippers' dedication video and even the much-hated Garrett Gilchrist (from Indulgence) is present during these segments telling a story about a "Big Boy Burger" that fit perfectly in his large mouth.
Very cool.
There are quite a few DVD extras on this disc like a Trailer for Clowns and Suicide complete with Radiohead track Kid A, 6 minutes of Outtakes with a majority of the cast and a full-scale drunken Commentary with Jay Bauman, Lisa Renley and Josh Cox.
You can tell the crew is tanked!
Good going!
These dudes have come a long way since A Very Blanc Screen Christmas and in the right direction.
Keep on living!
Clowns and Suicide is presented in the full-screen format with stereo sound.
Smoker's Soapbox:
Fact is Clowns and Suicide has all the makings of a cult classic here and now.
Hey, where can we get one of those Cool Bear sodas?
They look totally refreshing and we bet it tastes like magic.
Anyway, you should definitely check out this movie when you get the chance.
It's good clean fun for the most part and a rather straight-forward comedy that actually works!
We dig it.
Someone give Jay a real budget!
[ 4 puffs! ] 80%
