Nov 17, 2010
Feeding Frenzy - 2010 - Jay Bauman and Mike Stoklasa
https://twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/4968874348904449
https://www.facebook.com/redlettermedia/posts/132678090119913
https://archive.is/Pfkna (animalattack.info)

In 1984, Joe Dante (Piranha, Howls, Panic on Florida Beach, etc.) brought to the screen a screenplay by Chris Colombus in which adorable creatures, the Mogwais, were transformed into real mischievous crap nicknamed the Gremlins if they did not respect three basic rules.
The film received immediate critical and public success, and a sequel was set in motion.
In the meantime, many more or less admitted and not always very successful copies were to emerge in the wake of Gremlins.
Critters and his krites then disembark, whose adventures will span four films, just like for the creatures of the series of Ghoulies, alongside many titles like Munchies, Hobgoblins, Spookies, Glutors, Beasties, Kamillions, etc.

Critters all more ugly and nasty than the other, representative of a period of ten years to which wish to pay homage Mike Stoklasa and his sidekick Jay Bauman.
The two men, directors of the independent production company Red Letter Media, then embarked on the production of Feeding Frenzy, a low-budget horror comedy that has nothing to envy of its (best) sources of inspiration.
The story does not present anything very original, as the course of events, the performances of the actors are rather disparate, but Feeding Frenzy is particularly entertaining.
Although limited, the financial means are used to the best, the staging and the general technical aspect are worked on, and one feels the implication and the conviction of all the participants in this tribute throughout the film.

The story takes a little long to fall into place, but the omnipresent humor partly makes it possible not to pay too much attention to it.
The ferocious critters with sharp teeth are hardly visually impressive, a gripe mainly due to their small size, but their appearance is just as fun as they are repulsive.
Just like the scenario, the special effects give it an old school feel, for our greatest pleasure.
Obviously, there is no question here of prowess à la Rob Bottin, but the charm operates anyway, especially since the directors do not hesitate to pour into the gore that stains on several occasions.

Through Feeding Frenzy, Mike Stoklasa and Jay Bauman offer us a fun and pleasant little B-series, a sincere tribute to a genre that they are particularly fond of, that we can easily share with friends over a few pizzas and a pack of beer...before of course evoking with nostalgia a time when the shelves of video clubs gave us as much satisfaction as disappointments...
