Oct 27, 2010
Feeding Frenzy **½
https://archive.is/IxjJV (vaughnonmovies.com)

Jesse Camp (Ron Lipski) is a loser.
He works a dead end job at Plinkett’s Hardware.
The girl he likes (Gillian Bellinger) is dating a jock.
And now his boss, Mr. Plinkett (Rich Evans) is murdering people and feeding them to something that resides in the basement of his store.

Feeding Frenzy directed by Jay Bauman & Mike Stoklasa of Red Letter Media, a small time production company out of Milwaukee.
It’s shot on video, doesn’t have even a former household name among the cast, and its CGI work could be matched by my mom.
So why am I reviewing it?
I see well over a hundred movies like this one each year as part of my involvement with the Tallgrass Film Festival and in most cases I’m merciful enough to avoid thrashing the more amateur festival rejects.
Even though Feeding Frenzy is sporting a similar budget, it forgoes the traditional means of distribution by premiering on DVD.

It’s usually shameful to have a straight-to-video release, but Red Letter Media is a force to be reckoned with on the web.
Their full-length video reviews of Star Trek and Star Wars films have garnered wide acclaim thanks to their insight and comedy.
I’m a fan myself.
In some cases their hour plus reviews are more entertaining than the film they are based upon.
I’d much rather sit through their Star Wars: Episode II – Attack of the Clones review than the actual film—I’ve watched the Red Letter Media version three times, Lucas’ once.
With some self-made credentials it seemed that Feeding Frenzy warranted a reviewing, even with a recycled concept.

Like most people who are going to happen by Feeding Frenzy, I’m familiar with Stoklasa’s interpretation of the Plinkett character.
From my understanding of it, the more famous version isn’t the original.
Yet, I do miss him.
Evans doesn’t yell catch phrases and ultimately isn’t as endearing.
Strangely, Stoklasa appears in many scenes as Carl and even goes as far as to yell one of Plinkett’s signature lines.

The rest of the cast gets the job done.
Lipski isn’t taking on a commanding role so at least he doesn’t grow annoying.
His hopeful girlfriend Bellinger displays acute physical comedy skills.
According to IMDB.com the budget equated to $25,000.
At that price, frugal Red Letter Media sure found value in the acting.

I like the puppets, which sure beat the low rent computer renderings found on Sci-Fi Channel (Vaughn On Movies does not recognize the name change) original films.
Unfortunately the cheapness can become distracting elsewhere.
Video is almost always compromising.
It’s affordable and more flexible in post-production, but it doesn’t look nearly as good as film.
It’s no surprise that Feeding Frenzy was shot on video, but some of the mise-en-scène is simplified, the lighting is often times too bright, and the editing lacks flair.

The biggest strength Feeding Frenzy—or any other truly independent film—can have is in the writing.
No matter how much money the big films have at their disposal, their script writing tools will never be more precise than ours.
If your economical horror-comedy is going to plunder from no less than a dozen ‘80s films, you’d best make sure that you bring the comedy, and Feeding Frenzy does that.
There are in-jokes, gross-out, and satirical gags that keep it fresh… or rather putrid.

It’s difficult for me to shower praise on something that is all things unattractive and cheap, while also being unoriginal.
Unlike painting, filmmaking is not a hobby for the everyman; you need more than a brush and canvas.
The unfortunate reality is that Hollywood tries to make it impossible for the rest of us to step up our game.
The effort put forth by Bauman, Stoklasa, and friends is commendable despite obvious shortcomings.
Feeding Frenzy is the best Gremlins rip-off since Gremlins 2.
**½
