Oct 30, 2010
Halloween Treat: Feeding Frenzy - Review
https://archive.is/7vZia (examiner.com)

Modern horror has fallen under dark times.
What was once a fan-based genre based in the bowels of Hollywood has become big business and a plethora of sequels and remakes are regurgitated every year without the least bit of consideration to the audience.
Simply put, most horror films are made for the sole intention of making money and are mass-produced, much like a cheap toy on a conveyor belt, by cold-hearted businessmen who have no interest in the films being made.
However, every now and again, a light shines through in a film made exclusively for fans, by fans.
The film is Feeding Frenzy from Wisconsin-based Red Letter Media.

Red Letter Media recently gained notoriety on the internet for their beloved Star Wars and Star Trek reviews by homicidal character, Harry S. Plinkett.
While these reviews are beyond accurate and entertaining, Red Letter has proved that they are no one hit wonder.
Feeding Frenzy is a comedic homage, to say the least, and is created in the vein of many puppet-like monster movies, such as Critters and Ghoulies, which were unusually popular in the 80s.

Because the film is based in comedy and is a tribute, the plot is completely absurd and oh so satisfying.
Mr. Plinkett, from the above mentioned reviews, is portrayed in the film as doing what his character does best, killing hookers.
Only this time he is feeding them to a crate full of pint-sized monsters.
After accidentally releasing the creatures, local loser, Jesse must take the challenge of saving the town from certain doom.
During the course of accomplishing this task, Jesse and his pals encounter a barrage of strange yet excellently written characters that provide for some great and memorable scenes.

Aside from having a superbly/horribly bizarre storyline, the film also salutes many classic flicks of the past.
This is accomplished in several different ways.
The most obvious homage would be the inclusion and exaggeration of many ridiculous horror clichés.
Such nods range from gratuitous scenes involving scantily clad women, to the outlandish overuse of blood and gore.

On the subject of gore, the effects are another aspect that is pulled right from a vintage classic.
These effects are masterfully crafted and fun to see for the simple reason that they aren’t pulled from computer software.
It is a sigh of relief to actually see something similar to effects that might appear in Re-Animator or a Romero film.
In fact, the monsters themselves are comparable in quality to something Savini might have done in his early years.

The acting may not be that of “Godfather-like” quality but such things do not affect the enjoyment of the film and actually enhance the experience because it just adds to the camp that has already been well-established.
One of the most unforgettable lines, “they even ate his f*cking face”, is delivered with such intensity that has not been heard since Bruce Campbell in The Evil Dead.

Feeding Frenzy is a nice throwback to the horror of yesteryear.
Although the element of terror is not to be taken seriously, the film was clearly made with great care and attention.
Such ambition points to the early works of such greats as Sam Raimi or Wes Craven and allows the belief that Red Letter Media has the creative ability to breathe life back into the genre.

Rating: 
5 / 5 "Kills"
