Jan 8, 2011
Feeding Frenzy
https://archive.vn/HM2fJ (filmbizarro.com)

Plot:
In the basement of a hardware store, shop owner Mr. Plinkett keeps a dark terrible secret locked away from prying eyes.
But when people start turning up missing, store employee Jesse Camp, along with his love interest Christine and her boyfriend Kyle Johnson, decide to investigate what's in Plinkett's basement.
What they find down there turns out to be more frightening then they could have ever imagined.

Our thoughts:
Internet sensation Red Letter Media - the group behind the infamous "Star Wars: The Phantom Menace" video review that is as long as a feature length movie.
Strikes back at the world of horror movies with their second genre title, "Feeding Frenzy".
The self-proclaimed tribute to rubber-puppet-monster movies is a more comedy than horror flick that is indeed a homage to movies like "Gremlins", "Critters", "Ghoulies", "Munchies" and in general any cheesy tiny-monster movie from the 80's.

The story is simple, yet perfect for the mini-creature feature.
Mr. Plinkett, (the character from the reviews, though not portrayed by the same person in the movie) the strange old man who runs the local hardware shop, keeps a dark and frightening secret locked away in his basement.
A secret that comes in the shape of fleshy balls that have a taste for blood and could destroy the town if they ever got out.
Naturally, after running out of hookers to feed them and his employee, Jesse, bumbles up an investigation into Plinkett's basement.
The ravenous balls escape and it's up to Jesse to save the town - though I think the town's folk would rather take their chances with the monsters.

Since the movie exists as a homage to all those wonderfully crappy monster flicks that we love, hate, or love to hate.
It is quite a silly movie but it plays out fairly straight laced; the story is well structured and executed as well as any of the titles that inspired it.
Just with some comedic twists.
That's one of things that makes "Feeding Frenzy" work so well.
While the idea is completely ridiculous and silly, Mike and Jay still have the movie play out semi-serious manner.
At no point do they have the movie become stupid for stupid's sake like so many movies seem to do these days.
It certainly can get stupid and ridiculous when it wants to with the jokes and gags, but that serious tone helps keep "Feeding Frenzy" grounded.

Also, another reason the movie works as well as it does is because it boasts a slick production.
Mind you, this is a no-budget project that pretty much had Mike and Jay doing the jobs of an entire crew, including making the wonderful little critters of "Feeding Frenzy".
Yet when you actually watch the movie you would never know it: there is real lighting involved, great cinematography, editing, and a fitting score.
In a weird way the amount of professionalism that went into the production keeps the movie from feeling as silly as it is.
Though it also makes you wonder why a movie that was made on the backs of two guys and a handful of cast members is able to look as good as it does, when most don't ever come close to looking as good as "Feeding Frenzy" does.

Even though Red Letter Media has become famous for their video reviews, you don't have to worry about knowing anything about that part of the company as "Feeding Frenzy" was made before they started doing the reviews.
So the reviews and the movies are two separate beings (though you'll see some familiar faces) and you can be new to the work of RLM or already be a fan.
You'll still be able to walk away with the same laughs and the same appreciation for the movie, where ever you may stand.
I absolutely recommend anybody to check "Feeding Frenzy" out because it is nothing but pure entertainment and a good time.
Even when some of their jokes fall flat, the movie is still loads of fun.
I found out about the movie from our buddy Jeff at Cinema Head Cheese and he said the movie has potential for cult status, and I couldn't agree more.
"Feeding Frenzy" is what midnight cinema is all about -- it can be enjoyed individually or in a group setting.
