Apr 27, 2013
IHC DVD Review: RedLetterMedia’s Gorilla Interrupted
https://archive.is/3RzOq (iheartchaos.com)

There is a pretty interesting story behind this movie, and in some ways, the back-story overshadows the movie itself.
Gorilla Interrupted was the first film created by what would later become RedLetterMedia, the team behind the Mr. Plinkett Star Wars Reviews, the movie review show Half in the Bag, and a series of indie film releases such as the excellent 80s-rubber-monster-movie-homage Feeding Frenzy.
The script was written in one night, and was shot on a camcorder in one week, back in 2002.
The folks at RLM just recently gave the movie the George Lucas treatment, adding better special effects, music, and re-editing the movie on modern software.

Rich Evans plays Ray Grabowski, an alcoholic with serious anger issues who is abducted by aliens and accidentally has his DNA mixed with gorilla DNA.
After this abduction, he discovers that he turns into a gorilla whenever he gets angry.
Mike Stoklasa plays Sid, a stereotypical punk rocker with an awful British accent and a nuclear guitar.
Jay Bauman plays Dex, a nerdy inventor who is hopelessly in love with his childhood crush Julie (played by Lisa Renley).
And then there is the crazy (and incredibly annoying) big-game hunter, played by Garrett Gilchrist.
Together, they team up to fight the aliens, and eventually, Satan.

That really sums up the meat of the plot.
To say more than that would give away some of the best parts of the movie.
Rich Evans steals the show with great acting, while Jay and Mike check in with their usual dry humor style to great effect.
The weakest link in the story is the big-game hunter.
The character seems far too silly to fit the style of the movie.
Still, Garrett has his moments and occasionally provokes a chuckle or two.

Even though this movie reeks of quick-and-dirty production values (especially in the hilariously-shot alien spaceship scenes), it is technically very impressive, considering that it was filmed on a cheap camcorder.
They attempted to use proper lighting, and the audio is surprisingly good.
If you expected high-school-level production values, you couldn’t be more wrong.
But more importantly, for all of its quirks, it ends up being a highly entertaining movie, especially when you consider that it was thrown together in just a week.

However, the special features really shine on this DVD release.
There is a full commentary with Jay, Mike, and Rich which is really entertaining.
And then there is the making-of documentary “How Not to Make a Movie".
The documentary is almost as long as the movie itself, bringing together interviews with the key players, as well as outtakes and a behind-the-scenes look at the new special effects.
The combination of the movie, commentary, and documentary makes this a very entertaining release.
By the time you finish watching the movie and the special features, you end up with a much greater appreciation of the genius of this cheap little movie.

So, the question is, is a cheaply-shot amateur movie and associated bonus content worth the price of admission? if you like RedLetterMedia and their dry style of comedy, then yes.
If you can suspend your disbelief and appreciate a low-budget comedy for what it is worth, then yes.
And if that hasn’t convinced you, then look at this montage of scenes from the movie.
If anything here looks remotely interesting, then this is worth your hard-earned money:

This movie has a lot of heart, and I found myself falling in love with it.
It’s available on DVD and as a digital download.
However, I seriously suggest the DVD version, since it comes with the DVD commentary and documentary.
